our father went to a prominent health
care institution in the Boston area to
remove stones from his left kidney by
means of a commonly performed procedure
less than seven months later our father
died a victim of a preventable hospital
acquired infection during this procedure
our father contracted a staph infection
which required him to be readmitted to
the hospital repeatedly this marked the
beginning of the most horrific six
months of his life a staph infection is
defined as outside bacteria and
organisms invading the body causing
disease hospital-acquired staph
infections are spread through healthcare
workers medical instruments and hospital
surfaces the staph infection resulted in
the removal of his left kidney when we
questioned the urologist about the
dangers of removing the highly infected
kidney he confidently dismissed all of
our concerns I father hesitantly agreed
to have the surgery to remove his kidney
he came home hoping that the worst was
over both the surgeon and his primary
care physician consistently dismissed
our father's physical symptoms even
though he often exclaimed I feel
terrible I feel like I'm going to die
several weeks later our father was
rushed to the emergency room for rectal
bleeding he bled profusely losing more
than eight units of blood in a matter of
minutes it appeared as though he would
not make it through the night he was
admitted to the medical ICU where it was
determined that the infected kidneys
thump had not been removed causing the
bleeding of his a order in : in other
words our father was not only a victim
of a hospital-acquired infection but
also a medical adverse event the next
morning he underwent emergency surgery
to repair his colon in aortic artery
upon his discharge he tried to resume
life but life was never the same
although we felt optimistic that the
worst was over our father continued to
feel sick and would often tell his
doctors you guys did this to me he felt
that he was at the mercy of the doctors
and a disconnected health care system
that had failed him during a follow-up
visit with his vascular surgeon our
worst fears were realized the emergency
surgery had not been effective and the
infection continued to ravage his body
his only hope would be to undergo two
additional bypass surgeries during this
ordeal I silently vowed to my father
that his suffering would not be in vain
it has become my mission to educate
consumers to take an active role in
their health care our father became a
victim of a fragmented health care
system that can only change by engaging
consumers and having them understand
that they have a voice and it should be
heard we need to have a ground swelling
interest from consumers in order to
change the health care structure that
exists today perhaps we need public
outrage enough is enough
100,000 lives are lost each year to
hospital-acquired infections in the
United States this is the equivalent of
a daily plane crash in all of its 273
passengers dying I ask you what would
the FAA do and what would the public
reaction be we need not only expect but
also demand quality health care for our
loved ones in ourselves
we all need to work together to bring
about change so that future generations
will benefit from a reformed health care
system